From Hansel minutes.com. It's
Hanselman quickly discussion with web
developer and technologist Scott Hanselman
hosted by Carl Franklin. This is
Lawrence Ryan announcing show number two
recorded Monday, January 16th, 2006 sport for
Hanselman it's just provided by
automated QA makers of test
complete providing automated testing of
windows.net framework, Java and web
applications online@wwwdotautomatedqa.com. And by Peter
bloom.com start with better controls
finish with better sites online
at www dot P E
T E R E L
U M. Dot com. Support
is also provided by.net developers
journal. The world's leading.net developer
magazine online at D O
T E N E T.
That says dashcam.com. Hey, this
is Carl Franklin Hanselman is show
number two, take it away,
Scott. Hi everyone. I really
appreciate all your feedback on
Hansel minutes. Number one, this
is show number two, and
we've got a whole pile
of content for you. Don't
recall. Yes, we did. Scott
noticed that Carl is doing
the best he can not
to waste your time. Anybody's
time today, and we've already
wasted about 20 seconds. Let's
get right to it. So
cool stuff this week for
me, I've got a number
of different things that I've
been thinking about around hardware
and it's showed up on
the net and a couple
of different places, but I've
been checking out this optimist
keyboard, cause I recently just
bought myself a Microsoft wireless
laser keyboard, 6,000, but this
optimist keyboard is one of
those things that was done
as a, a student example
or you know, students senior
project. And they're talking about
actually creating it. It's a
keyboard by which every single
key is a little LCD
color screen. I personally use
an ergo Dex, E R
G O D X or
codex.com, which has a bunch
of blank keys. And you
can actually arrange them any
way that you want. They're
sticky on the back. And
I play things like Guild
Wars. I've also used it
for code rush to set
up macros. So it's basically
a macro pad with detachable
keys, but the idea that
I could change the look
and feel of my entire
keyboard just by reprogramming all
of the, the faces sounds
pretty attractive. And they're saying
it's going to come in
only at about two, $300,
which is right about it.
The amount that my wife
wouldn't notice if I, if
I bought, without telling her
the things Scott that I
find weird about that is
that If you have a
different keyboard for every program
You're going to use, you
might have a little trouble
getting used to now, where
is this key right now?
Yeah. Things move around on
you. That could be totally
valid point. But I was
thinking about that. We say
even myself as someone, who's
got a pile of tools,
like my list up at
hanselman.com/tools that I use these
1500 programs, but there's a
very crisp kind of power
curve where there's like the
top 10 applications that I
use every single day. And
I don't think that I
would go and set up
a, a special keyboard for
an application I use twice
a week. Right. You know,
for the totally sick and
twisted, you can go to
data, hand.com. Have you seen
data hand? I have seen
the data hand. That was
just a little too strange
for my taste. I think
that occasionally bought one Scott.
Wow. I actually bought one.
I haven't used it. I
tried it. And it's going
to take a lot of
practice to get good at
that. Go to data, hand.com.
You'll see what I mean
For me, but we will
see, I'm definitely taking a
look at DAS keyboard, a
dis keyboard.com the blank hackers
keyboard, not just because it's
blank and people would think
you were cool. Cause you
were using a keyboard that
had nothing marked on it.
And it was actually a
lookalike keyboard from Belkin now
because each of the keys
is individually weighted. I've always
found that I have more
pain on my pinky and
my ring finger because all
the keys are weighted at
about, I think, 40 grand,
40 grams or micrograms of
pressure that is required to
make the key go down.
The DAS keyboard actually makes
the keys weighted specifically for
the stronger fingers. So I'm
looking at checking that out
and hopefully have a review
up on my blog pretty
soon. Hey, you're into Maine
right? Big time. I've got
a lot of main stuff
running. I've been using a
thing called Mame. IEX main
IEX is actually a media
center PC front end for
Mame so that I can
actually launch from my media
center, PC this main interface
that lets me select all
the different emulations and games
that I want. And Mamie
X can actually act a
little bit as its own
media center PC. And it
was written in.net, which is
pretty slick. You know, I
think it would be valuable
to describe Maine because I
really don't think that a
lot of people know about
it. I think a lot
of them are wrong. I
think a lot of people
have heard of it, but
a lot of people haven't
actually tried downloading and getting
a game to work may
means multi arcade machine emulator.
And there's a number of
it started out in dos.
There's a number of different
there's main for windows. Mame
is an opensource thing that's
written entirely in C. So
it's been poured into almost
every platform. There's a Mac
specific name, a Linux name
there's maim for the, I
believe that there's even main
for like the iPod. And
someone's anytime a small device
comes out to really prove
that we can hack that
device. Someone tries to port
things over via Mame. And
interestingly as machines are getting
more and more powerful and
languages are getting more and
more powerful, more and more
stuff is being set up
to emulate Mame. Like I
was up@gamehyphenoldies.com. It's an emulation
website that basically gives you
maim anywhere, anytime in a
browser using the Java runtime.
And you can go and
pick up games. I don't
know what the legality of
that is, but that doesn't
mean I won't play them
as much as I can
until they get shut down.
There's always been a gray
area around Mame ROMs because
they are essentially poor, you
know, ripped rums, right from
the original arcade machine. Exactly.
And technically you're only supposed
to run the main game
if you actually have that
full upright, you know, $5,000
version of donkey Kong jr.
And your base and then
you are legally. Okay. But
I think even technically, according
to digital millennium, copyright law,
if someone was downtown downstairs
playing your donkey Kong game
at the same time you
were on the emulator, you
would not be allowed to
play that. Huh? It's a
very, very gray area, but
I was still pretty impressed.
Okay. So what is this
a PSP like device you
were talking about? Do we
have a link for that?
And speaking of that, where
are all the links? So
all the links right now,
we've been using different things
like shrink stir Earl x.org,
Earl one, two, three.com. Last
time we use tiny Earl
for now for this show,
let's give this a try.
This is show number two.
All of the links will
be up at the show.
Number two, section of Hansel
minutes.com. You can go up
there and find it. And
I'll probably also put some
of the links up at
delicious Del dot I C
I O dot U S.
And I'll talk more about
delicious and show number three,
but this PSP like devices
up in a ceo.uk. So
I won't even bother reading
it to you, but the
device is called a GP
to X, and this is
a small $200 Linux-based device.
It's not quite the, the
chutzpah that a PSP has,
but it's a small portable
handheld device that runs Linux
and people are using it
as a, wouldn't say a
poor man's PSP, but definitely
kind of the hacker friendly
PSP people have been struggling
with this wrestling back and
forth as Sony tries to
shut them down and the
home brew applications keep coming
back. This device actually comes
with an SDK and says,
please hack me as such.
They've come up with Mame
doom, ports, quake ports for
this thing. And it's, it's
actually working out pretty nicely.
I think that the price
point is right. A couple
hundred dollars is right about
where the geeks can handle
it and porting things over
to that like video players
and other Linux software is
happening. I really had a
very fast pace. So if
you're thinking about a PSP,
maybe check out the ,
it might be more what
you're wanting to do. I
mean, the biggest problem with
buying a piece of hardware
like that for portable gameplay
is you get the games
that are made for it.
And that's it. This seems
to be really, really cool
hackers delight. Now I personally
bought a PSP because I'm
really less interested in the
games and more interested in
the video aspects. I bought
a PSP as an inexpensive
portable media center because I
felt at the time, this
was last year that the
media center portables from Microsoft
just were a little too
expensive. I couldn't justify $400.
I could justify less for
a PSP and up@furrygoat.com. These
taken advantage of this wireless
built in wifi that the
PSP has. And he's actually
got 20 gigs of external
storage set up. So he's
actually downloading stuff and his
own kind of internal wifi
network. So even though he's
got a one gig memory
card for videos and such,
he can go up and
download new, fresh content from
his 20 gig external drive.
Basically what he did is
he found a drive enclosure
that takes laptop hard drives,
but the enclosure also acts
as a, as a Nass,
as a network attached storage.
And the drive enclosure actually
has wifi built in. And
since it has wifi and
the PSP has wifi, he
worked out some kind of
Unix hacking and some scripts
to, to have those guys
talk to each other, tasty.
It is, it's pretty nice.
It's at frigo.com. We'll have
the full link at the
Hanselman. It's show number two.
Now that's a little too
hardcore for me, but as
we're podcasts and anatomy, if
it's pretty hardcore, if it
involves running VI, I've pretty
much given those things up
Pico, but I can't run
VI anymore. Right? So, and
also we had a correction
about something you said about
the video on the Xbox
three 60 last week, right
now, a lot of different
stuff with the Xbox three
60, I've been downloading audio.
I've been watching video, but
I've been doing the video
watching via the media center,
extender technology. The idea that
you can remote desktop into
a media center PC, this
is the windows XP media
center edition. And you basically
get a complete experience as
if you were sitting in
front of the media center.
This is not the watered
down media center, extender stuff
of the past. The Xbox
three 60 is actually updated.
There's a specific update for
the, the windows XP media
center, PC edition called roll
up to that gives you
this functionality, but you can
only watch video either a
that's downloaded from the Xbox
live marketplace, which is content
that Microsoft supports and puts
up there or B via
this remoting. So you need
to have this, this functionality
set up on a media
center, PC I've set one
up and put it in
a closet. It looks nice.
Oh, it looks fantastic. It
looks absolutely fantastic. And since
we're talking about podcasting, we're
on a podcast. Now you
can do video casting. The
tool called video era and
video era is basically a
pilot I'm casting application that
downloads video, and then does
something with the video. Once
it's come down, a lot
of people use it for
video casting to their PSP.
There's a number of different
TV shows that you can
download that are kind of
underground TV shows, they're often
index format or formats that
aren't necessarily Microsoft friendly video,
or we'll actually bring this
content down and either squish
it and put it onto
your PSP automatically, or it
will squish it and put
it into a folder and
set it up ready to
be watched from an Xbox
three 60 via media center.
But if you're not into
kind of that packaged experience@brainsandbrawn.com,
and again, that's a link
we'll put up at Hansel
minutes. Casey Chestnut has got
instructions on how to download
Devex, which is a very
highly compressed MPEG, four format,
Devex Kodak videos, and actually
do on the fly transcoding
from those Devex format to
a WMV, which then could
be watched on your three
60 via the media center
extender. Wow, that's cool. I've
had a number of people
come over to the place
and I've shown them. They
asked box three 60 and
they've actually said, I'm not
interested in the games just
as I'm not interested in
the games in the PSP
that much. They said, you're
saying I could fill my
house with an Xbox three
60 in each room and
have a video extend our
experience in each room. And
I think we're getting to
that place. They've snuck thing
into our house and it
is going to become a
media hub without us even,
even realizing it and Google
stuff. You got a lot
of Google stuff to talk
about this week, right? You
know, Google, their motto is,
do no evil, but you
know, I don't know how
someone could bring out such
good software so much. So
often it's like every five
minutes they've got something going
out on their site without
at least having celled sold
one of their souls, maybe
surrogate to the devil because
Google pack is fantastic. It's,
it's basically, you know, Google
update just like we've got
Microsoft update. And that came
out recently. And I hope
that rather than using it
as a venue for pushing
commercial software out, they use
it as a venue for
getting good open source software
out there. But it's Google
earth. That's really been impressing
the heck out of me.
And there's a website called
FBO web.com that has got
flight tracking in Google earth.
Now we're talking about Google
earth here, not Google maps,
Google earth is the 3d
topography. They take all of
this information. They layer on
the topography, the satellite data
during hurricane Katrina, they brought
up NOAA data and they've
got flight tracking, working even
with altitude. So you can
take your virtual earth and
twist it and actually watch
the planes, the virtual planes
landing. And I'm all about
the flight tracking software. I've
got relatives that come in
from Africa every year. And
we always watch for two
days with kind of wrapped
attention as we see their,
their flights coming over from,
from Johannesburg. Now on the
Google maps side, of course,
the flat The world is
flat part of Google, Lots
and lots of different Google
mashups. You can do these
mashups also with virtual ERs,
which Microsoft's virtual mapping software,
but package mapper.com is such
a fantastically useful thing. I'm
constantly trying to see where
my packages are. And I
usually just have that little
boring grid that you see
at ups that says here,
it's in, it's in Poughkeepsie.
Now you can actually have
a pushpin show up with
a where it is, how
it's getting there and a
visual representation of where your
packages up@packagemapper.com, you know, and
actually another one off the
top of my head is
virtual places as kind
of a playground for Ajax
and Microsoft asp.net two O
Atlas, a preview of their
Ajax technology. And Nikki is
doing some pretty amazing stuff.
And it's almost all a
mashup with virtual earth. His
site is hosting it and
photos, geo location. You can
go to Portland, Oregon on
the map there, zoom in
and say, show me RSS
feeds that are in this
general area. And it'll actually
put a little XML, RSS
orange badge at the location
and latitude and longitude that
you have. Geotagged your particular
feed to say you locate
at this geotagging is actually
something that you can do
to your RSS feed to
say, Oh, I am broadcasting
quote, unquote broadcasting from this
particular location. So I get
to see what other bloggers
are in Portland. It's pretty
fantastic stuff. That's awesome. And
speaking of Portland, something going
on with Google, Justin Portland.
Yeah. TriMet is the transit
authority in Portland, and they've
always been very kind of
forward looking in their technology
views and their it department
is really fantastic. The TriMet
website@try-met.org has always had some
really neat Java. Applets JavaScript
things to pop up and
tell you when you need
to go running for the,
for the bus. But Google
maps has actually set up
a Google transit site and
they're initially interfacing with data
from TriMet. So when you
do directions, you always go
up@mapquestormaps.google.com. And you say, get
me from point a to
point B. And they always
kind of assume that you're
going to be driving in
a car with transit. They
interface with TriMet and they
say, walk three miles West,
stop here, get on this
particular bus, take the train,
yada yada yada, all these
things. And even they tell
you how much money you
will save taking transit mass
transit versus versus taking a
car. So they'll say would
cost you a dollar 85
in gas, but it cost
you a buck, you know,
Bucko five to take the,
take the train. I think
that they're gonna start expanding
that out. And I think
that for, for new Yorkers,
if they could figure out
a way to interface with
the Metro system in New York,
the idea that I could
come in from Brooklyn, either
in my car and park
and factor in all those
kinds of things, or I
could take the train, it
could be a real coup
for new Yorkers trying to
find direction Serious, serious. Time-saver
yeah. I hope to see
that in other States. Totally.
And speaking of time, savers,
portable apps.com. Yeah. Lately I've
been all about trying to
have my, my life on
a, on a, on a
USB key. I wrote on
my blog recently about a
getaway key. Like if, you
know, if your house blew
up and you needed to
get away, what would you
put on a USB key
to, to run away and
make sure that you could
get things handled, even though
your house had been destroyed.
And I started looking for
different things you can put
on your USB key and
portable apps.com is this great
website that has got all
sorts of applications that run
via basically an X copy,
deploy there, you copy them
onto your USB key things
like Firefox things like a
Sunbird the calendaring application Thunderbird
open office, and you run
them directly off your USB
key. You never know when
you're going to find a
person's machine. They've got Microsoft
works on it. You go
to your mom's house, you
carry your data with you
on your USB key. Why
not carry some of your
applications? So now do you
have to boot up, do
you have to boot up
a version of Linux that's
on the key two or
No, these are all the
windows versions of these open
source apps. Oh, the windows
versions. Okay. Yeah. Totally portable.
So for example, sometimes you
might go, it might be
traveling, you know, again, when
we traveled in Africa a
lot, oftentimes we don't bring
our laptop because wifi is
not pervasive. So we'll go
to a cyber cafe and
I don't have access to
their machine. I can't go
as administrator and start installing
things. And they're looking over
my shoulder, but I might
have a chat program and
a version of a word
processor. They don't have Excel
because they didn't buy a
license. So I've got open
office right there on my
key. So why not take
your apps along with your
data? Have you ever had
a, just out Of curiosity
where you've been told to
not run that because that's
not an app that's on
our computer. I have had
situations where they caught me
downloading stuff. I have had
situations where they spotted me
poking around on the registry.
Hey, this is Carl Franklin checkout
test complete from automated qa.com.
Test complete does automated testing
of windows.net framework, Java and
web applications. It's won jolt
awards two years in a
row from software development magazine,
even though it's been voted
best testing tool test complete
is really affordable. It costs
just a fraction of what
you'd have to pay for
its nearest big name. Competitor
test complete is standards based
and extensible with a well-documented
plugin API, and the test
scripts use familiar languages, VB
script, JavaScript C sharp script
C plus plus script. And
even Delphi scripts. You choose
the language that works best
for your team. You don't
have to buy a dozen
different modules to test all
your applications. Test complete is
a full test development environment.
It has features like an
easy to use windows test
recorder that auto creates test
scripts and an advanced script
editor with features like syntax
highlighting code completion, and context
sensitive help. It has test
execute a lightweight utility for
running distributed tests and test
recorder, a library for building
tests into your application. And
if you plan on using
visual studio, 2005 team system
test complete integrates nicely with
it and adds a new
test, complete test type. So
do yourself a favor in
download a free evaluation copy
of test complete@automatedqa.com. All right.
So who, who is RIAA
and what is it solid?
But I believe it's actually
the name of the Indian
gentleman who, who runs this
site. It's the name of
his daughter, and this is
a photo site, like a
photo sharing site, you know,
kind of in the realm
of the Shutterfly's, the Snapfish
and the smug mug. But,
but this RIAA is actually
a more of an AI
and intelligence experiment than a
photo sharing experiment. A lot
of times we want to
tag our data, tag our
photos with information. I know
that I've used, Picasa the
free photo sharing application from
Google. And I've wanted to
say, well, I'll go through
and find pictures of grandma
tagged them as grandma find
pictures of  Denzo. And
then if I can want
to find pictures with bababababa
and tagging, never because the
data typically gets a sloppy.
You don't tag a photo,
you miss tag a photo.
What this RIAA attempts to
do is look at the
photos and actually recognize faces.
It'll ask you. Who is
that? That's uncle Phil. Oh,
are these five of uncle
Phil? Okay, cool. I got
a pretty good idea of
what uncle Phil looks like,
and it'll find them in
low light and highlight. Now
it's all and invite only
alpha right now, but on
Malique on his website was
recently wondering out loud if
Google was going to buy
these people and whether Google
buys them or not, or
whether they do their own
thing. The idea that, that
this kind of analysis could
be done on a picture
just really opens up the,
the possibilities. And if you
take that along with the,
the tagging and meta database
technology, that's coming in Longhorn
now called Vista and there,
when F when Fs file
system, why can't my PC
rather than doing SETI at
home and trying to find
aliens in its spare time,
be chewing on my pictures
and saying, Oh, I recognize
that this is Christmas 2005,
and here's a bunch of
different pictures of trees or
whatever. So that's, that's really
insane if you think about
it, you know, it's really
insane. But at the same
time, if you read a
lot of things like, you
know, Phillip K Dick or
science fiction, this is what
they've been telling us. We
were going to have since
computers started. And it's just
a lot harder than I
think a lot of people
really thought. And, you know,
and this was actually why
we bring into things like
this, this mechanical Turk thing
that I was actually talking
to you earlier about Amazon
mechanical Turk, right? So the
mechanical Turk was a, a
Carney, a carnival act that
was taken around. It was
basically a machine that looked
like a Turkish gentleman, and
it was a robot, but
there was actually a person
hidden in a box. And
you'd ask the mechanical Turk
about your life. And then
a piece of paper would
come out, explaining what, what
he thought about you. And
it was just done with
a guy in a box
with a typewriter, but the
concept of a mechanical Turk
machine that's augmented by humans
has been taken to the
next level by Amazon. Who's
actually got a collection of,
I like to call the
Metta elves, you got all
these elves out there. These
are all these people who
have nothing better to do
than to go to. Am
I hot or not? And
click on a radio button?
Why don't we pay them
2 cents to actually do some
work that would ordinarily cost
us a lot of money.
So if I had a
bunch of pictures, maybe I'm
a real estate agent. I've
got a whole wall of
pictures. And I want to
say, which one of these
pictures is a good shot
at the storefront of this
particular property. I give that
data to Amazon. They loaded
into mechanical Turk and they
say, put it in a
queue. And then these people
who sign up for the
mechanical Turk process go, and
they go up to the
website and it says, is
this a good picture? The
storefront, this, and here's three
versions. And they click a
radio button. And if they're,
if they've done their job,
right, they get 2 cents. So
one could potentially make a,
you know, I don't know
how fast they are. And
if they're trying not to,
to be sloppy six, seven,
eight, 10 bucks an hour
as a mechanical turret. So
some in, in California types
in a question and somebody
else answers it, basically, that's
what they're doing Right now.
They're doing it with, with
images. So, you know, is
this a picture of, and
they're actually using it as
a test for their maps.amazon.com,
which is Amazon's storefront mapping.
They basically had a number
of vans with GPS is
driving around metropolitan areas, taking
pictures out of the left
and right side of the
van. So then when I
type in, I need to
go to palace bookstore. Not
only did they give me
a directions, but they also
say, and here's a picture
of Powell. So you know
it, when you see it,
huh? So then they will,
they're using this now rather
than having a computer, try
to figure out if that's
a good shot of pals
bookstore, right. Put it into
the queue. So it's really
a test of this queuing
technology that they've got. And
you're going to see that
expanded out to other kinds
of problems that a lot
like Google answers, where you
can go up and ask
a question and pay $5
for it. When you really
want processing power. And like
these rhea.com people, they can
get it working 99%, but
they're always going to miss
pictures of uncle Phil. Why
can't the elves, the Metta
elves out there. Do that
for me. Hmm. Awesome. All
right, one more. And then
let's talk bugs. zazzle.com. You
can have pictures and pictures
with people's faces on it.
I was really impressed with
zazzle.com  dot com because
I could go up and
actually purchase postage with the
picture of my son on
it. Fantastic stuff costs about
twice. As much as a
regular stamp stamps are up
to 40 cents. I think I
paid 80 cents, 90 cents a stamp,
but I get a nice
big fat stamp with a
two dimensional barcode on it.
Each stamp is unique. So
you can't do these yourself.
It's all done through Pitney
Bowes, but Zazzle licenses the
stuff. I know things like
this have been done before,
but the age AXI interface
that they had set up,
it worked great in Firefox.
Literally in five minutes, I
had this thing set up.
I had my sheet of
stamps. I can design it.
And then it showed up
like two days later. So
it was like Shutterfly, except
it's got postage. We're doing
all of our baby. Thank
you notes with a zazzle.com
snaps. Very cool. Very cool.
All right. So what kind
of bugs did we encounter
this week, Scott? Well, I
was pretty much bug free
at work. Not because we
write bug free code, but
because I wasn't writing code
this week, but I'm going
to take advantage of some
of my friends and some
of the bugs that they
came up with. John box,
who's got a blog up
a John box dot.net developers,
journal.com. Again, all links will
be up@thehanselminutes.com show site. This
is show number two. John
box had a really crazy
bug where he was finding
on a particular machine. The
cookies were getting dropped. He
was trying to do some
very basic asp.net forms authentication.
You've got a nice reproduction
set up where he would
go to a site as
an anonymous user login cookie
doesn't show up. So then
he starts sniffing that stuff.
When you find these kinds
of bugs, where you're feeling
that your cookies are being
either slapped down or not
being returned, you want to
pull out a tool like
Fiddler, Fiddler, tool.com or my
favorite, which is I HTTP
headers that Jonas Blunck put
together. And these integrate with
IAE and lets you actually
sniff the traffic that we
don't typically see that that
head or traffic, whether it
be caching, headers or cookies
and stuff. So he actually
posted this up to a
news group that we're on.
And we saw very clearly
that that cookie was being
handed back in. Initially we
were thinking just asp.net somehow.
But if you look at
his, his sniffing, it was
pretty clear that it was
handed to IIE. And on
the next request, I, he
simply didn't hand it back
And it wasn't something dumb,
like cookies were turned off.
And I know Typically when
you find these kinds of
things out, you want to
look at your are cookies
turned on, what is your
security set out? If your
security set at high? The
most common thing on a
public website is not having
a  or a compact
privacy policy set up because
I will often toss cookies
that it finds a be
a little suspect, especially if
your site does not have
an actual express privacy policy.
I thought his cookie was
being kicked back by privacy
policy, but it turned out
that there was a security
update pushed out to IIE
recently. And actually Jeff Berkowitz
on my blog called that
out. And then John talked
to Microsoft support and we
think that it's been confirmed.
It's actually a Microsoft KB
article three one two four
six one that says that
when you have a DNS
name or a server name
that has an underscore in
it, that's a risk. And
so I will actually kick
that back silently. I was
refusing the cookie because his
server name had an underscore.
That's really wild. It was
totally wild. And when we
threw it out, a bunch
of guys said, Oh, I
totally had that happen to
me. And this is one
of those bugs where you
just have to say it
out loud once. And once
you've heard it, it'll never
happen to you, but it
had never hit John before.
I hadn't seen it before.
Now I know not to
put underscores in my, in
my domain names. It turns
out that having an underscoring,
your DNA domain name, and
again, this was an internal
domain. I think it was
like my underscore server that
was being sent back. It's
just not cool. So don't
do it. It's not RFC
compliant. And the big bug,
of course, a Rocky LACA
brought to our attention. But
apparently it's been kicked around
a little bit about how
an ASP net threads can
switch on you in, in
the back end and ASP
net unexpectedly, thus rendering the
security context and everything else
sort of moot, right? A
lot of that all about,
Yeah, it's a pretty crazy
bug. A lot of people
have, have felt that once
a request comes in to
asp.net, that I can count
on my underlying thread to
be my underlying thread and
to not change. And it
really comes down to kind
of that definition of what
is unexpectedly, right? asp.net job
is to manage this pool
of worker threads and its
whole goal is to avoid
any kind of blocking. Anytime
a thread is blocked, that's
a thread that could be
doing something else. So it
does everything that it can
to prevent that. And this
actually hearkened back to some,
some older, older stuff that
I had posted about the
thread static attribute. This is
an attribute that you can
put onto a, a variable
that says you're like a
static, except every thread has
a copy of you. And
what can happen is if
your request is switched out
and some other request comes
in and uses your thread
in the pool there, that
information that you've decided to
store in that thread static
attribute is going to be
opened up to them. So
I just said in a
very short blog post don't
use a thread static attribute
with asp.net and an Australian
named peers. Seven referenced that
older post and really went
to the next level, did
a lot of very good
experimentation and we'll post a
link to his post. And
Rocky discovered this because you
know, Rocky is all about
the business objects. He wrote
the book on business objects
and he said, well, I
need to count on my
thread level data. As I
pass things from asp.net into
my business objects. And most
importantly, he was concerned about
the current principal of the
thread, right? Who am I,
my security information that was
causing a lot of problems.
And the issue is that
some people say requests were
thread agile, meaning that things
could get swapped out at
any time and that's wrong.
Other people say requests, they're
pinned to a thread for
the lifetime and that's wrong.
And we actually talked about
this a number of different
times and we couldn't figure
it out. So we went
to Scott Guthrie and he was
kind enough to really put
this to rest. It was
amazing. The response, I mean,
somebody said, Hey, Scott Guthrie should
read this. And like the
next day he said, I
just, just now got this
thread. And here's what it's
all about. Right? So it
turns out that there are
a number of things that
are on the thread that
asp.net will move for you
when it switches into another
thread. The idea is that
if you're using something like
asynchronous pages with asp.net to,
Oh yep. Perhaps you've written
an HTTP handler and you're
using some async or more
likely you've written an HTTP
module, even though it's true
that it's not possible to
have your thread pulled out
from underneath you, when you
have code actively running, it
is possible that your thread
will change out and out
from underneath you between maybe
the begin request and the
authenticate request. Because if you're
doing something that's going to
block, then they're going to
possibly pass your threat off
somewhere else. It turns out
that asp.net will automatically propagate
the thread dot current principle,
the HTTP context, user property
and the culture information. This
was the other big concern
is that your thread actually
has the notion of culture.
You are your UI, your
thread dot your current culture
ID and your current UI
culture. All of that stuff
is propagated. So right. It
turns out that the data
that you put on the
thread though, if you're using
things like thread, local storage,
yes will not come along.
It's not their responsibility to
pull that stuff over. So
if you're going to be
doing stuff in asp.net where
you want to store things
in what you feel is
the current thread, put those
things in HTTP context dot
items, right? It's never been
a good idea. As far
as I know to store
things in, in the thread
itself, especially in.net where the
threads, aren't really a thread,
specifically an asp.net where you
have this notion of my
execution context, but you're right.
The underlying thread is managed
by some other thing right
now, if you were doing
all this in a WinForms
app or a console app,
people put stuff, thread local
all the time. Yeah. Cause
you're in control of it.
Most of the time, exactly.
The, the moral of the
story is that asp.net owns
your threads in asp.net. So
you need to treat them
with respect. And if you
spin up your own thread,
you run some work on
another thread, it's up to
you to transfer that data
over that you might need.
And it is important to
note that the threads aren't
changing, quote unquote, without warning,
they're not actually changing while
the code is running. but@thosekindsoftransitionpointswhereasp.net
has exposed a particular event,
it can be a problem.
All right, Scott, I think
we got to call it
a show. It's been a
good one. Yeah. I think
it went pretty well. And
I really do want to
say that we appreciate everyone's
feedback. This is a work
in progress. I hope we
made your commute a little
easier. I hope that you'll
recommend this to your friends.
Continue to send me ideas
for tools bugs that you've
had, that we can talk
about gadgets, life hacking, whatever
it takes. And we'll try
to incorporate it into future
versions of Hanselminutes. And next
week, we'll talk about my
new Prius. You got a
Prius. I am haul dude.
We're in hacker heaven. I
love my Prius. I'm going
to get windows booting up
on that big LCD screen.
You watch it. Me too.
All right, we'll talk about
it next week on Hanselman.
Bye. Bye .